
### QUIC : 

As part of the team project paper presenation, my task was to study and analyze below features of QUIC: 

#### 1. Congestion Control: 
QUIC has pluggable congestion control, and provides richer information to the congestion control algorithm than TCP. One example of richer information is that each packet, both original and retransmitted, carries a new sequence number. This allows a QUIC sender to distinguish ACKs for retransmissions from ACKs for originals and avoids TCP’s retransmission ambiguity problem.  
Also, QUIC’s ACK frames support up to 256 NACK ranges, so QUIC is more resilient to reordering than TCP (with SACK), as well as able to keep more bytes on the wire when there is reordering or loss.

#### 2. Forward Error Correction: 
QUIC can complement a group of packets with an FEC packet. The FEC packet contains parity of the packets in the FEC group. If one of the packets in the group is lost, the contents of that packet can be recovered from the FEC packet 

#### 3. Connection Migration: 
QUIC connections are identified by a 64 bit connection ID, randomly generated by the client. This means that if a client changes IP addresses (for example, by moving out of Wi-Fi range and switching over to cellular) or ports (if a NAT box loses and rebinds the port association), it can continue to use the old connection ID from the new IP address without interrupting any in-flight requests.

#### Performance Comparison: 
Further to study perfomance of QUIC, based on the results from Google's QUIC demo, we studied that there is almost a 8% mean reduction in latecy while using QUIC instead of TCP. Similarly, based on the Country wise perfomance comparison, the charts showed that when there is a very less Retransmission rate of packets and high speed internet, you don't see much improvements. Where as in country like India, where mean RTT is 188ms(compared to 38ms in South Korea), the imrovements are excellant. The latency reduction can be seen in higher latecy stages, proving that the QUIC is not much effective when you are using a high-speed internet with very low latency. The QUIC is useful when user is located in a high latecy, low speed internet connection location.

#### Implementation: 
As part implementation, I used Google's Chromium source code to implement and enable QUIC locally. The source code can be found at "https://github.com/Prabha-Veerubhotla/cmpe273-QUIC/tree/master/ChromiumCode". The instructions should be followed for working QUIC. After running server and client code, the results can be seen in WireShark Captures where the captures show GQUIC packets being sent to and from server's IP and PORT. 
Same requests can be seen from Google's chromium browser after enabling QUIC Flag. 

To enable QUIC Flag, run below command:  
chrome://flags/

Then, google websites such as youtube and google search will also use QUIC protocol. You can monitor this traffic as well from wireshark.  
